Hello, let's summarize what you've had
the opportunity to learn studying our
GladLib example of creative storytelling.
The GladLib.java program
read templates from files or
URLs to create engaging stories
about any topic you chose.
We use the program to motivate the need
for and study of the ArrayList class.
Array lists are like arrays in that they
support indexing to individual elements,
but an ArrayList object can grow as
needed rather than being a fixed size.
We also use the program to motivate
the study of the HashMap class.
HashMaps are very efficient structures
that can be used to associate
keys with values.
You saw two examples of this
in study of the GladLib class.
We also use the GladLib class as
a small case study to understand
that creating code and programs that
are extensible is a good idea but
requires thinking,
planning, and experience.
We use the GladLib class to
study the ArrayList class.
An ArrayList object is an indexable
collection of elements.
ArrayLists store primitive types, so
you can store integer objects, but
not int values.
This means you often need to update
ArrayList integer values in two steps.
First, getting the value and
updating it, and
then putting that value back in the map.
To use the ArrayList class, you must
import it from the java.util package.
In contrast, you don't need to
specify a package for arrays.
Useful methods you've seen include add(),
to add a new element to
the end of the ArrayList.
Size(), to determine the number
of elements in an ArrayList.
Get(), to access an element by its index.
Set(), to update an element
using its index.
And indexOf(),
to determine where an element is stored
in an ArrayList by index.
You can write code to loop over
all elements in an ArrayList
by either using an ArrayList
object as an iterable, or
using an Int for loop,
starting at zero and looping up to, but
not including, the size of the array
to access each element by its index.
We also studied the HashMap class.
A HashMap object is a collection
of (key,value) pairs.
The keys serve as mappings for accessing
the values, hence the name HashMap.
Both keys and values are objects, so
you would use Integer rather than int,
just as you did for the ArrayList.
Keys are best as immutable objects,
like String or Integer.
Keys must be unique.
Values can be any object type,
including String or
ArrayList as in the examples you saw.
You import HashMap from java.util just
as you do for the ArrayList class.
In the examples, you saw the methods
put(), to add a key value pair to the map.
Size(), to determine the number
of pairs or keys in a map.
Get() to access a value by it's key.
KeySet(), to iterate
over all the elements.
And ContainsKey(),
to determine if a key is in the map.
Looping over all elements requires
an iterable over the key set of the map.
You can't access individual
elements one at a time by an index
as you can with the ArrayList.
Two different collections with
two different sets of strengths.
We hope you'll have fun using them.